# BUILD YOUR OWN WORLD GAME

## Project Description

This is a Java-based project that generates a 2D tile-based world with rooms, hallways, and an interactive avatar. The world is rendered using the Princeton Tiled Engine (TETile) and user interaction is handled through keyboard input or predefined input strings. The avatar travels through this world collecting food. 

## Technologies Used

* Java 17+
* Princeton’s algs4 libraries
* TETile Engine (byow.TileEngine)

## Features

* Procedural World Generation
   * Rooms and hallways are generated by partitioning the map randomly using a user-inputted seed.
* Avatar Movement
   * Control an avatar using W, A, S, D keys. Movement is constrained by walls.
* Food Collection Mechanic
   * Collect food placed randomly on the floor tiles to increase your score.
* Save & Load Functionality
   * Game state is saved to and loaded from a text file.
* Heads-Up Display (HUD)
   * Mouse hover displays tile descriptions, and score is shown during gameplay.
* Zoomed View Toggle
   * Press F to toggle a small local view around the avatar.

To-do list:
* Make the game challenging:
  * Add another character to chase the avatar, with different difficulty modes.
  * Use food to purchase powers like increased health, speed, etc. 

## Getting Started
   
- Clone repository:
   - git clone https://github.com/franceshogg/Build-Your-Own-World-Java.git
- Nativate to the root folder
- Compile Engine.java and add the algs4.jar file to the classpath:
   - UNIX: javac -cp .:algs4.jar byow/Core/Engine.java
   - Windows: javac -cp .;algs4.jar byow\Core\Engine.java
- Run code:
   - UNIX: java -cp .:algs4.jar byow.Core.Engine
   - Windows: java -cp .;algs4.jar byow.Core.Engine

## Usage

* Click 'L' to load a previous game, 'N' to start a new game, and 'Q' to quit.
* If new game, type in a random series of any numbers followed by S to generate a unique world.
* Move the Avatar using WASD keys and collect the food (apple icon).
* Click 'F' to toggle a small view around the avatar. Press 'F' again to remove the small view. 
* Press ':' and 'q' to quit and save the game.

## Contributors

> Here list the people who have contributed to this project. (ignore this section, if its a solo project)

## License

This project uses the following license: [<license_name>](<link>).

